proposal/proposal.md, before:

Project proposal
================
Chrissy & Ricky

``` r
library(tidyverse)
library(readr)
library(broom)
library(fivethirtyeight)
library(WDI)
```

## 0. Requirements

You will write your proposal in the proposal.Rmd file in your Github
project.

Section 1 - Introduction: The introduction should introduce your general
research question and your data (where it came from, how it was
collected, what are the cases, what are the variables, etc.).

Section 2 - Data: Place your data in the /data folder, and add
dimensions and codebook to the README in that folder. Then print out the
output of glimpse() or skim() of your data frame.

Section 3 - Data analysis plan:

1.  The outcome (response, Y) and predictor (explanatory, X) variables
    you will use to answer your question. The comparison groups you will
    use, if applicable.

2.  Very preliminary exploratory data analysis, including some summary
    statistics and visualizations, along with some explanation on how
    they help you learn more about your data. (You can add to these
    later as you work on your project.)

3.  The statistical method(s) that you believe will be useful in
    answering your question(s). (You can update these later as you work
    on your project.) What results from these specific statistical
    methods are needed to support your hypothesized answer?

Finally, each section should be no more than 1 page (excluding figures).
You can check a print preview to confirm length.

## 1. Introduction

Section 1 - Introduction: The introduction should introduce your general
research question and your data (where it came from, how it was
collected, what are the cases, what are the variables, etc.).

1.  
2.  
3.  

## 2. Data

Section 2 - Data: Place your data in the /data folder, and add
dimensions and codebook to the README in that folder. Then print out the
output of glimpse() or skim() of your data frame.

We will use data from two sources: (1) Covid-19 related data (owid-covid
data), (2) World Bank World Development Indicator. Covid-related data is
coming from this repo: <https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data.git>; WDI
is coming from the WDI package in R. The owid-covid-data should be
sufficient for our analysis, but we may need additional data from WDI,
so we include WDI here in case we may need it in the future.

``` r
covid_data <- readr::read_csv(file = "../data/owid-covid-data.csv")
```

    ## Rows: 164243 Columns: 67

    ## ── Column specification ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
    ## Delimiter: ","
    ## chr   (4): iso_code, continent, location, tests_units
    ## dbl  (62): total_cases, new_cases, new_cases_smoothed, total_deaths, new_dea...
    ## date  (1): date

    ## 
    ## ℹ Use `spec()` to retrieve the full column specification for this data.
    ## ℹ Specify the column types or set `show_col_types = FALSE` to quiet this message.

``` r
covid_data_code <- readr::read_csv(file = "../data/owid-covid-codebook.csv")
```

    ## Rows: 67 Columns: 4

    ## ── Column specification ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
    ## Delimiter: ","
    ## chr (4): column, source, category, description

    ## 
    ## ℹ Use `spec()` to retrieve the full column specification for this data.
    ## ℹ Specify the column types or set `show_col_types = FALSE` to quiet this message.

``` r
glimpse(covid_data)
```

    ## Rows: 164,243
    ## Columns: 67
    ## $ iso_code                                   <chr> "AFG", "AFG", "AFG", "AFG",…
    ## $ continent                                  <chr> "Asia", "Asia", "Asia", "As…
    ## $ location                                   <chr> "Afghanistan", "Afghanistan…
    ## $ date                                       <date> 2020-02-24, 2020-02-25, 20…
    ## $ total_cases                                <dbl> 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, …
    ## $ new_cases                                  <dbl> 5, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, …
    ## $ new_cases_smoothed                         <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, 0.714, …
    ## $ total_deaths                               <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_deaths                                 <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_deaths_smoothed                        <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_cases_per_million                    <dbl> 0.126, 0.126, 0.126, 0.126,…
    ## $ new_cases_per_million                      <dbl> 0.126, 0.000, 0.000, 0.000,…
    ## $ new_cases_smoothed_per_million             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, 0.018, …
    ## $ total_deaths_per_million                   <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_deaths_per_million                     <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_deaths_smoothed_per_million            <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ reproduction_rate                          <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ icu_patients                               <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ icu_patients_per_million                   <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ hosp_patients                              <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ hosp_patients_per_million                  <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ weekly_icu_admissions                      <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ weekly_icu_admissions_per_million          <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ weekly_hosp_admissions                     <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ weekly_hosp_admissions_per_million         <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_tests                                  <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_tests                                <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_tests_per_thousand                   <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_tests_per_thousand                     <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_tests_smoothed                         <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_tests_smoothed_per_thousand            <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ positive_rate                              <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ tests_per_case                             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ tests_units                                <chr> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_vaccinations                         <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ people_vaccinated                          <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ people_fully_vaccinated                    <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_boosters                             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_vaccinations                           <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_vaccinations_smoothed                  <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_vaccinations_per_hundred             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ people_vaccinated_per_hundred              <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ people_fully_vaccinated_per_hundred        <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_boosters_per_hundred                 <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_vaccinations_smoothed_per_million      <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_people_vaccinated_smoothed             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_people_vaccinated_smoothed_per_hundred <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ stringency_index                           <dbl> 8.33, 8.33, 8.33, 8.33, 8.3…
    ## $ population                                 <dbl> 39835428, 39835428, 3983542…
    ## $ population_density                         <dbl> 54.422, 54.422, 54.422, 54.…
    ## $ median_age                                 <dbl> 18.6, 18.6, 18.6, 18.6, 18.…
    ## $ aged_65_older                              <dbl> 2.581, 2.581, 2.581, 2.581,…
    ## $ aged_70_older                              <dbl> 1.337, 1.337, 1.337, 1.337,…
    ## $ gdp_per_capita                             <dbl> 1803.987, 1803.987, 1803.98…
    ## $ extreme_poverty                            <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ cardiovasc_death_rate                      <dbl> 597.029, 597.029, 597.029, …
    ## $ diabetes_prevalence                        <dbl> 9.59, 9.59, 9.59, 9.59, 9.5…
    ## $ female_smokers                             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ male_smokers                               <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ handwashing_facilities                     <dbl> 37.746, 37.746, 37.746, 37.…
    ## $ hospital_beds_per_thousand                 <dbl> 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.…
    ## $ life_expectancy                            <dbl> 64.83, 64.83, 64.83, 64.83,…
    ## $ human_development_index                    <dbl> 0.511, 0.511, 0.511, 0.511,…
    ## $ excess_mortality_cumulative_absolute       <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ excess_mortality_cumulative                <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ excess_mortality                           <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ excess_mortality_cumulative_per_million    <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…

``` r
view(covid_data_code)
```

As mentioned eariler, we may not use the following data, but I just
include them in case we may use if as we move on for our project:

``` r
example <- WDI(indicator = c("SP.RUR.TOTL.ZS", "EN.ATM.CO2E.PC", "SP.POP.GROW", extra = TRUE))
```

    ## Warning in WDI(indicator = c("SP.RUR.TOTL.ZS", "EN.ATM.CO2E.PC", "SP.POP.GROW", : The following indicators could not be downloaded: TRUE.
    ## 
    ## Please make sure that you are running the latest version of the `WDI` package, and that the arguments you are using in the `WDI()` function are valid.
    ## 
    ## Sometimes, downloads will suddenly stop working, even if nothing has changed in the R code of the WDI package. ("The same WDI package version worked yesterday!") In those cases, the problem is almost certainly related to the World Bank servers or to your internet connection.
    ## 
    ## You can check if the World Bank web API is currently serving the indicator(s) of interest by typing a URL of this form in your web browser:
    ## 
    ## https://api.worldbank.org/v2/en/country/all/indicator/TRUE?format=json&date=1960:2020&per_page=32500&page=1

``` r
glimpse(example)
```

    ## Rows: 16,226
    ## Columns: 6
    ## $ iso2c   <chr> "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1…
    ## $ country <chr> "Arab World", "Arab World", "Arab World", "Arab World", "Arab …
    ## $ year    <int> 1960, 1961, 1962, 1963, 1964, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1969, 19…
    ## $ ``      <dbl> 68.76586, 68.02007, 67.27088, 66.49840, 65.69640, 64.85230, 64…
    ## $ ``      <dbl> 0.6092683, 0.6626177, 0.7271170, 0.8531159, 0.9723814, 1.13867…
    ## $ ``      <dbl> NA, 2.740659, 2.755250, 2.773687, 2.797644, 2.823648, 2.858245…

``` r
view(US_births_2000_2014)
view(US_births_1994_2003)
```

## 3. Data analysis plan

Section 3 - Data analysis plan:

1.  The outcome (response, Y) and predictor (explanatory, X) variables
    you will use to answer your question. The comparison groups you will
    use, if applicable.

-   
-   
-   

2.  Very preliminary exploratory data analysis, including some summary
    statistics and visualizations, along with some explanation on how
    they help you learn more about your data. (You can add to these
    later as you work on your project.)

-   
-   
-   

3.  The statistical method(s) that you believe will be useful in
    answering your question(s). (You can update these later as you work
    on your project.) What results from these specific statistical
    methods are needed to support your hypothesized answer?

-   
-   
-

Commit message:

Complete adding some summary statistics

proposal/proposal.md, after:

Project proposal
================
Chrissy & Ricky

``` r
library(tidyverse)
library(readr)
library(broom)
library(fivethirtyeight)
library(WDI)
```

## 0. Requirements

You will write your proposal in the proposal.Rmd file in your Github
project.

Section 1 - Introduction: The introduction should introduce your general
research question and your data (where it came from, how it was
collected, what are the cases, what are the variables, etc.).

Section 2 - Data: Place your data in the /data folder, and add
dimensions and codebook to the README in that folder. Then print out the
output of glimpse() or skim() of your data frame.

Section 3 - Data analysis plan:

1.  The outcome (response, Y) and predictor (explanatory, X) variables
    you will use to answer your question. The comparison groups you will
    use, if applicable.

2.  Very preliminary exploratory data analysis, including some summary
    statistics and visualizations, along with some explanation on how
    they help you learn more about your data. (You can add to these
    later as you work on your project.)

3.  The statistical method(s) that you believe will be useful in
    answering your question(s). (You can update these later as you work
    on your project.) What results from these specific statistical
    methods are needed to support your hypothesized answer?

Finally, each section should be no more than 1 page (excluding figures).
You can check a print preview to confirm length.

## 1. Introduction

Section 1 - Introduction: The introduction should introduce your general
research question and your data (where it came from, how it was
collected, what are the cases, what are the variables, etc.).

1.  We intend on using covid and world indicator to examine what cause
    differences in how different countries experienced the pandemic/
    what caused different pandemic outcomes across the world.

2.  

3.  

## 2. Data

Section 2 - Data: Place your data in the /data folder, and add
dimensions and codebook to the README in that folder. Then print out the
output of glimpse() or skim() of your data frame.

We will use data from two sources: (1) Covid-19 related data (owid-covid
data), (2) World Bank World Development Indicator. Covid-related data is
coming from this repo: <https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data.git>; WDI
is coming from the WDI package in R. The owid-covid-data should be
sufficient for our analysis, but we may need additional data from WDI,
so we include WDI here in case we may need it in the future.

``` r
covid_data <- readr::read_csv(file = "../data/owid-covid-data.csv")
```

    ## Rows: 164243 Columns: 67

    ## ── Column specification ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
    ## Delimiter: ","
    ## chr   (4): iso_code, continent, location, tests_units
    ## dbl  (62): total_cases, new_cases, new_cases_smoothed, total_deaths, new_dea...
    ## date  (1): date

    ## 
    ## ℹ Use `spec()` to retrieve the full column specification for this data.
    ## ℹ Specify the column types or set `show_col_types = FALSE` to quiet this message.

``` r
covid_data_code <- readr::read_csv(file = "../data/owid-covid-codebook.csv")
```

    ## Rows: 67 Columns: 4

    ## ── Column specification ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
    ## Delimiter: ","
    ## chr (4): column, source, category, description

    ## 
    ## ℹ Use `spec()` to retrieve the full column specification for this data.
    ## ℹ Specify the column types or set `show_col_types = FALSE` to quiet this message.

``` r
glimpse(covid_data)
```

    ## Rows: 164,243
    ## Columns: 67
    ## $ iso_code                                   <chr> "AFG", "AFG", "AFG", "AFG",…
    ## $ continent                                  <chr> "Asia", "Asia", "Asia", "As…
    ## $ location                                   <chr> "Afghanistan", "Afghanistan…
    ## $ date                                       <date> 2020-02-24, 2020-02-25, 20…
    ## $ total_cases                                <dbl> 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, …
    ## $ new_cases                                  <dbl> 5, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, …
    ## $ new_cases_smoothed                         <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, 0.714, …
    ## $ total_deaths                               <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_deaths                                 <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_deaths_smoothed                        <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_cases_per_million                    <dbl> 0.126, 0.126, 0.126, 0.126,…
    ## $ new_cases_per_million                      <dbl> 0.126, 0.000, 0.000, 0.000,…
    ## $ new_cases_smoothed_per_million             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, 0.018, …
    ## $ total_deaths_per_million                   <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_deaths_per_million                     <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_deaths_smoothed_per_million            <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ reproduction_rate                          <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ icu_patients                               <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ icu_patients_per_million                   <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ hosp_patients                              <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ hosp_patients_per_million                  <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ weekly_icu_admissions                      <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ weekly_icu_admissions_per_million          <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ weekly_hosp_admissions                     <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ weekly_hosp_admissions_per_million         <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_tests                                  <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_tests                                <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_tests_per_thousand                   <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_tests_per_thousand                     <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_tests_smoothed                         <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_tests_smoothed_per_thousand            <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ positive_rate                              <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ tests_per_case                             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ tests_units                                <chr> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_vaccinations                         <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ people_vaccinated                          <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ people_fully_vaccinated                    <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_boosters                             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_vaccinations                           <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_vaccinations_smoothed                  <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_vaccinations_per_hundred             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ people_vaccinated_per_hundred              <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ people_fully_vaccinated_per_hundred        <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ total_boosters_per_hundred                 <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_vaccinations_smoothed_per_million      <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_people_vaccinated_smoothed             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ new_people_vaccinated_smoothed_per_hundred <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ stringency_index                           <dbl> 8.33, 8.33, 8.33, 8.33, 8.3…
    ## $ population                                 <dbl> 39835428, 39835428, 3983542…
    ## $ population_density                         <dbl> 54.422, 54.422, 54.422, 54.…
    ## $ median_age                                 <dbl> 18.6, 18.6, 18.6, 18.6, 18.…
    ## $ aged_65_older                              <dbl> 2.581, 2.581, 2.581, 2.581,…
    ## $ aged_70_older                              <dbl> 1.337, 1.337, 1.337, 1.337,…
    ## $ gdp_per_capita                             <dbl> 1803.987, 1803.987, 1803.98…
    ## $ extreme_poverty                            <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ cardiovasc_death_rate                      <dbl> 597.029, 597.029, 597.029, …
    ## $ diabetes_prevalence                        <dbl> 9.59, 9.59, 9.59, 9.59, 9.5…
    ## $ female_smokers                             <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ male_smokers                               <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ handwashing_facilities                     <dbl> 37.746, 37.746, 37.746, 37.…
    ## $ hospital_beds_per_thousand                 <dbl> 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.…
    ## $ life_expectancy                            <dbl> 64.83, 64.83, 64.83, 64.83,…
    ## $ human_development_index                    <dbl> 0.511, 0.511, 0.511, 0.511,…
    ## $ excess_mortality_cumulative_absolute       <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ excess_mortality_cumulative                <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ excess_mortality                           <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…
    ## $ excess_mortality_cumulative_per_million    <dbl> NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA, NA,…

``` r
view(covid_data_code)
```

As mentioned eariler, we may not use the following data, but I just
include them in case we may use if as we move on for our project:

``` r
example <- WDI(indicator = c("SP.RUR.TOTL.ZS", "EN.ATM.CO2E.PC", "SP.POP.GROW", extra = TRUE))
```

    ## Warning in WDI(indicator = c("SP.RUR.TOTL.ZS", "EN.ATM.CO2E.PC", "SP.POP.GROW", : The following indicators could not be downloaded: TRUE.
    ## 
    ## Please make sure that you are running the latest version of the `WDI` package, and that the arguments you are using in the `WDI()` function are valid.
    ## 
    ## Sometimes, downloads will suddenly stop working, even if nothing has changed in the R code of the WDI package. ("The same WDI package version worked yesterday!") In those cases, the problem is almost certainly related to the World Bank servers or to your internet connection.
    ## 
    ## You can check if the World Bank web API is currently serving the indicator(s) of interest by typing a URL of this form in your web browser:
    ## 
    ## https://api.worldbank.org/v2/en/country/all/indicator/TRUE?format=json&date=1960:2020&per_page=32500&page=1

``` r
glimpse(example)
```

    ## Rows: 16,226
    ## Columns: 6
    ## $ iso2c   <chr> "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1A", "1…
    ## $ country <chr> "Arab World", "Arab World", "Arab World", "Arab World", "Arab …
    ## $ year    <int> 1960, 1961, 1962, 1963, 1964, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1969, 19…
    ## $ ``      <dbl> 68.76586, 68.02007, 67.27088, 66.49840, 65.69640, 64.85230, 64…
    ## $ ``      <dbl> 0.6092683, 0.6626177, 0.7271170, 0.8531159, 0.9723814, 1.13867…
    ## $ ``      <dbl> NA, 2.740659, 2.755250, 2.773687, 2.797644, 2.823648, 2.858245…

``` r
view(US_births_2000_2014)
view(US_births_1994_2003)
```

## 3. Data analysis plan

Section 3 - Data analysis plan:

1.  The outcome (response, Y) and predictor (explanatory, X) variables
    you will use to answer your question. The comparison groups you will
    use, if applicable.

-   our outcome/ y variables would be deaths and other covid related
    markers like ICU occupation and overall cases.
-   the explanatory variables would be taken from the world bank data
    and covid data and could include medical resources like ICU beds or
    number of doctors. We could also subset the data and examine the
    effect of vaccination rate on these covid indicators.

2.  Very preliminary exploratory data analysis, including some summary
    statistics and visualizations, along with some explanation on how
    they help you learn more about your data. (You can add to these
    later as you work on your project.)

sapply(covid_data, mean, na.rm=TRUE) summary(covid_data) - -

3.  The statistical method(s) that you believe will be useful in
    answering your question(s). (You can update these later as you work
    on your project.) What results from these specific statistical
    methods are needed to support your hypothesized answer?

-   
-   
-
